# Chapter 1: Clean Code

## Highlights from the book

### The total cost of working on a messy code

Fixing or enhancing a messy code is hard. You do not know what the impact of the changes that you are doing.

Most of the time will be spent on figuring out what the code is doing rather than writing new code.

It affects both developer's productivity as well as morale.

### Why does bad code is written in the first place?

- Deadline pressures
- Fix it later attitude
- Focus on quick delivery that just works rather than doing it right the first time

### Attributes of Clean Code

- Minimal code duplication
- Easy to understand what the code is doing
- All code covered by tests
- Code is simple and direct
- Minimal dependencies

### The boy Scout Rule

It’s not enough to write the code well. The code has to be kept clean over time. We have all seen code rot and degrade as time passes. So we must take an active role in preventing this degradation.

It's a good practice apply the Boy Scout Rule

`Always leave the campground cleaner than you found it.`

## Questions Asked:

- Difference between imperative and declarative style of programming
- Do you begin with writing tests when working on a new feature?
- What can I do to ensure I get a job when I finish my current bootcamp/graduate course?

I thought about this a bit more and wrote an article on this:
[7 Step Strategy To Get Job When Starting or Switching Career](https://weekendprogrammer.substack.com/p/7-step-strategy-to-get-job-when-starting)

## Feedback / Suggestions:

- Have demo exercises
- An exercise with mob programming - that would be interesting.
- Have an online platform for everyone to interact, share knowledge
- Combine to have 1 session

## Action Item:

This was not discussed during the call.

But if you are up for taking an action and get more benefits, I would invite you to create a project and have some sample code that you can share in the calls.

Or you can share a piece of code that you found on internet. But do let me know and share the link to me so that I can add that to agenda.
